This folder contains examples of explanatory schematics I have created. I list them here in reverse chronological order of creation, along with the original figure legends. 


**CaterpillarRankAbundanceCurve.png:** The abundance of individuals sampled of each Lepidopteran species from the Phenoweb transect, 2014-2021. Inset is the 35 species used for statistical analyses presented in this study.

**CaterpillarAbundanceTurnover_ModelVariancePartitioning:** Variance explained by each variable in a model estimating the factors explaining the abundance of caterpillar species, with A) habitat and climate, B) just climate. Teal represents terms that explain the mean abundance of caterpillars, while orange are terms that explain the turnover of caterpillar communities.

**CaterpillarAbundanceTurnover_TreeTaxa.png:** A) The estimated abundance of the average caterpillar species on each tree taxon. Error bars represent the 95% confidence intervals, and the dashed line represents the overall model intercept. B) The estimated abundance of each caterpillar species on each tree taxon. C) The estimated pairwise difference in abundance of all caterpillar species between each pair of tree taxa. A represents mean abundance while B, and C represent turnover.

**CaterpillarAbundanceTurnover_Climate.png:** A, C & E) The change in abundance of the average caterpillar species with climate. Coloured bands represent the 95% credible intervals. B, D & F) The lines correspond to predictions based on the 95% upper (pale line) and lower (strong line) predicted species-specific slopes across the range of the climatic variable. The larger the difference in slopes, the greater the turnover across temperature or rainfall values. Orange lines and bands correspond to predictions from models that were run that include tree taxon as a habitat variable, and teal lines and bands are from models without habitat. These lines are plotted using the mean model intercept for comparison purposes. Insets are the differences across the posterior of the species-specific slope variation in the model with habitat compared to the model without habitat. Positive values indicate that the variation in slopes is greater in the model including habitat, and negative values indicate that there is greater variation in slopes in the habitat without habitat. Vertical lines are the 95% CIs.

**PhenCorrelationDivergence_SimulationPowerAnalysis.png:** Precision (A-C) and power (D-F) of models run from simulations. A-C) Black points show true variances and metric values. Coloured points show median values across 500 runs, with 2.5% and 97.5% quantile error bars. D-F) Percentage of models for which the parameter is significant. For A & D inputs are 0 for the relevant parameter. B & E inputs: residual slope = 1.25, year-slope variance = 0.2 & year variance = 20.  C & F inputs: residual slope = 1.50, year-slope variance = 0.3 & year variance = 40. C shows type-1 error rates ($\alpha$ = 0.05 shown by the dashed line). Inset table gives number of species, years, and individuals per species for each scenario.

**TreePhenologicalOverlapHeatmap.png:** A) The overlap in phenological distributions of each species pair in 1990, as estimated by the trending model. B) The change in overlap of estimated phenological distributions from the initial study year to the final year (1990 – 2023). Estimates are the mode across the posterior. Species are ordered by their phenological order in the average year (from early to late species). ‘Alternate leafed dogwood’ and ‘trembling aspen’ have been abbreviated as ‘dogwood’ and ‘aspen’ respectively.
